index.md, before:

---
layout: default
---

As a Sr. AI Specialist Solutions Architect at Amazon Web Services (AWS), Anjan leads and supports global initiatives in generative AI, computer vision, natural language processing, and applied AI. With over 16 years of experience in software engineering and cloud technology, they have designed, developed, and implemented enterprise-level, complex, and large-scale systems using AWS products and solutions.

Anjan is a TOGAF® Level 2 Certified Professional and holds 7 AWS Certifications at Professional and Specialty levels. They have a solid background in cloud transformation and domain architecture, and work closely with stakeholders, project managers, developers, and focus groups to align strategy, processes, and IT assets with business goals. They are a technologist, an avid supporter, a researcher, and a contributor to open source projects. They are passionate about building the future of cloud computing with AI.

## Quick Links

- [Thought Leadership](#thought-leadership)
  - [Publications](#publications)
  - [Open-source Contributions](#open-source-contributions)
  - [Public Speaking](#public-speaking)
  - [Learn about AWS AI Services Intelligent Document Processing (IDP)](#learn-about-aws-ai-services-intelligent-document-processing-idp)
    - [Intelligent Document Processing Workshop](#intelligent-document-processing-workshop)
    - [Learn About Amazon Textract](#learn-about-amazon-textract)
    - [Learn About Amazon Comprehend](#learn-about-amazon-comprehend)
    - [AWS Machine Learning University](#aws-machine-learning-university)

# Thought Leadership
## [Publications](#publications)

[**Build trust and safety for generative AI applications with Amazon Comprehend and LangChain**](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/machine-learning/build-trust-and-safety-for-generative-ai-applications-with-amazon-comprehend-and-langchain/)
![llm-safety](https://d2908q01vomqb2.cloudfront.net/f1f836cb4ea6efb2a0b1b99f41ad8b103eff4b59/2023/09/05/ml-15084-image001.png)
We are witnessing a rapid increase in the adoption of large language models (LLM) that power generative AI applications across industries. LLMs are capable of a variety of tasks, such as generating creative content, answering inquiries via chatbots, generating code, and more. Organizations looking to use LLMs to power their applications are increasingly wary about data privacy to ensure trust and safety is maintained within their generative AI applications. This includes handling customers’ personally identifiable information (PII) data properly. It also includes preventing abusive and unsafe content from being propagated to LLMs and checking that data generated by LLMs follows the same principles. In this post, we discuss new features powered by Amazon Comprehend that enable seamless integration to ensure data privacy, content safety, and prompt safety in new and existing generative AI applications.

---

[**Intelligent document processing with Amazon Textract, Amazon Bedrock, and LangChain**](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/machine-learning/intelligent-document-processing-with-amazon-textract-amazon-bedrock-and-langchain)
![idp-genai](https://d2908q01vomqb2.cloudfront.net/f1f836cb4ea6efb2a0b1b99f41ad8b103eff4b59/2023/10/13/idp-llm-workflow.png)
This article discusses how generative AI using Large Language Models with Amazon Bedrock can enhance and augment intelligent document processing. The article discusses how LangChain can be utilized to achieve tasks such as summarization, in-context Q&A, table self-querying, and structured data extractions from the most difficult kinds of documents.

---

[**Integrate Amazon SageMaker Data Wrangler with MLOps workflows**](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/machine-learning/integrate-amazon-sagemaker-data-wrangler-with-mlops-workflows/)
![mlops](https://d2908q01vomqb2.cloudfront.net/f1f836cb4ea6efb2a0b1b99f41ad8b103eff4b59/2022/07/19/ml-lifecycle.png)
This article discusses the integration of Amazon SageMaker Data Wrangler with MLOps workflows to automate the end-to-end ML lifecycle, highlighting the simplification of data preparation processes for data scientists and ML engineers.

---

[**Prevent Fake Account Sign-ups in Real Time with AI using Amazon Fraud Detector**](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/machine-learning/prevent-fake-account-sign-ups-in-real-time-with-ai-using-amazon-fraud-detector/)
![afd](https://d2908q01vomqb2.cloudfront.net/f1f836cb4ea6efb2a0b1b99f41ad8b103eff4b59/2021/10/28/ML-6059-figure-1.png)
The piece elaborates on utilizing Amazon Fraud Detector in real-time alongside Amazon Cognito custom authentication workflows to thwart fake account sign-ups, emphasizing early detection and prevention of fraudulent account creations as a robust defense against fraud and platform abuse.

---

[**Part 1: Intelligent Document Processing with AWS AI Services**](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/machine-learning/part-1-intelligent-document-processing-with-aws-ai-services/)
![idp-e2e](https://d2908q01vomqb2.cloudfront.net/f1f836cb4ea6efb2a0b1b99f41ad8b103eff4b59/2022/07/29/idp-phases.png)
The article introduces IDP with AWS AI services for automating information extraction from various document types, aiming to replace manual, error-prone document processing with a faster, more accurate automated system, thus reducing overall costs and facilitating better business decisions.

---

[**Part 2: Intelligent Document Processing with AWS AI Services**](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/machine-learning/part-2-intelligent-document-processing-with-aws-ai-services/)

This article delves into the latter phases of the IDP workflow with AWS AI services, emphasizing transitioning from manual processing or legacy OCR solutions to an IDP pipeline for more accurate, faster, and cost-effective information extraction.

---

[**Process Mortgage Documents with Intelligent Document Processing using Amazon Textract and Amazon Comprehend**](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/machine-learning/process-mortgage-documents-with-intelligent-document-processing-using-amazon-textract-and-amazon-comprehend/)
![idp-mortgage](https://d2908q01vomqb2.cloudfront.net/f1f836cb4ea6efb2a0b1b99f41ad8b103eff4b59/2022/08/10/Arch-Diag-Mortgage.jpg)
The article presents how IDP with AWS AI services automates and accelerates mortgage document processing, improving decision quality and reducing costs by efficiently handling the document-heavy workflow of the mortgage application process.

---

[**Introducing One-Step Classification and Entity Recognition with Amazon Comprehend for Intelligent Document Processing**](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/machine-learning/introducing-one-step-classification-and-entity-recognition-with-amazon-comprehend-for-intelligent-document-processing/)
![one-step](https://d2908q01vomqb2.cloudfront.net/b6692ea5df920cad691c20319a6fffd7a4a766b8/2022/11/28/image001-12.png)
This article introduces a one-step document classification and real-time analysis feature in Amazon Comprehend for IDP, simplifying the direct analysis of semi-structured documents in native formats without the need for pre-processing to extract text.

---

[**Balancing Innovation with Safety & Privacy in the Era of Large Language Models (LLM)**](https://towardsdatascience.com/balancing-innovation-with-safety-privacy-in-the-era-of-large-language-models-llm-a63570e4a24a)
![tr-safety-llm](https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:2000/format:webp/1*JtxXR6v4VOp0Vx_8s2hYdA.png)
A Guide to Implement Safety, and Privacy Mechanisms for your Generative AI applications.
_Publisher: [towardsdatascience.com](https://www.towardsdatascience.com)_

---

[**Intelligent Document Processing with AWS AI Services and Amazon Bedrock**](https://opendatascience.com/intelligent-document-processing-with-aws-ai-services-and-amazon-bedrock/)
![bedrock-odsc](https://opendatascience.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/AB4.png)
Implement Intelligent Document Processing (IDP) with AWS AI and generative AI with Amazon Bedrock.
_Publisher: [Open Data Science](https://opendatascience.com/)_

---

[**Deploying and Scaling Apache Solr on Kubernetes**](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/opensource/deploying-and-scaling-apache-solr-on-kubernetes/)
![solr](https://awsopensourceblog.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/assets/anjanavb_apache-solr-kubernetes/anjanavb_apache-solr-kubernetes_f1.png)
The article outlines deploying and scaling Apache Solr on Kubernetes using Amazon EKS for an enterprise-grade search platform, mitigating challenges associated with distributed deployment of Solr, making it highly available, scalable, and fault-tolerant with lower maintenance.

---

[**Introducing Self-Service Quota Management and Higher Default Service Quotas for Amazon Textract**](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/machine-learning/introducing-self-service-quota-management-and-higher-default-service-quotas-for-amazon-textract/)

The article announces self-service quota management for Amazon Textract via the AWS Service Quotas console, alongside higher default service quotas in select AWS Regions, facilitating better scaling of Amazon Textract usage and quicker processing of quota increase requests.

---

[**Announcing Enhanced Table Extractions with Amazon Textract**](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/machine-learning/announcing-enhanced-table-extractions-with-amazon-textract/)

The article announces improvements in Amazon Textract's Tables feature for easier extraction of information from tabular structures in documents, auto-detecting titles, footers, section titles, and summary rows to simplify tabular data extraction.

---

[**Introducing Amazon Textract Bulk Document Uploader for Enhanced Evaluation and Analysis**](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/machine-learning/introducing-amazon-textract-bulk-document-uploader-for-enhanced-evaluation-and-analysis/)

The article introduces the Bulk Document Uploader feature in Amazon Textract, allowing for effortless processing and evaluation of up to 150 documents at once without coding, helping users quickly gauge Amazon Textract's performance on their documents.

---

[**NodeJS Runtime Environment with AWS Lambda Layers**](https://medium.com/@anjanava.biswas/nodejs-runtime-environment-with-aws-lambda-layers-f3914613e20e)

Build NodeJS applications with AWS Lambda Serverless functions using Lambda Layers to manage dependencies.

---

[**AWS Cognito User Pool Federation with OneLogin IDP**](https://medium.com/@anjanava.biswas/aws-cognito-user-pool-federation-with-onelogin-idp-4b1962127b0b)

A step-by-step guide on how to integrate OneLogin Identity Provider with Amazon Cognito

---

[**Uploading Files to AWS S3 from React App using AWS Amplify**](https://medium.com/@anjanava.biswas/uploading-files-to-aws-s3-from-react-app-using-aws-amplify-b286dbad2dd7)

Upload large number of files directly to Amazon S3 using AWS Amplify, with just a few lines of code.

---
**Classify documents with Amazon Comprehend [[video](https://youtu.be/QsqHvDPRSSQ)]**

<div align="center">
      <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QsqHvDPRSSQ">
         <img src="https://img.youtube.com/vi/QsqHvDPRSSQ/0.jpg" style="width:100%;">
      </a>
</div>

## [Open-source Contributions](#open-source-contributions)

If you've got a bright idea about improving any of these open-source repositories, we welcome forks and pull requests. 👍

- [Amazon Textract Layout Linearizer](https://github.com/aws-samples/amazon-textract-textractor/tree/master/prettyprinter#get-linearized-text-from-layout-using-get_text_from_layout_json-method)
- [AWS AI IDP Human-in-Loop](https://github.com/aws-samples/aws-ai-idp-human-in-loop)
- [AWS AI PHI Deidentification](https://github.com/aws-samples/aws-ai-phi-deidentification)
- [Amazon Textract IDP CDK Constructs](https://github.com/aws-samples/amazon-textract-idp-cdk-constructs)
- [Langchain Experimental Comprehend Moderation](https://api.python.langchain.com/en/latest/experimental_api_reference.html#module-langchain_experimental.comprehend_moderation)
- [Amazon Fraud Detector End-to-End](https://github.com/aws-samples/amazon-fraud-detector-end-to-end)
- [Amazon Fraud Detector with Cognito](https://github.com/aws-samples/amazon-fraud-detector-with-cognito)
- [SM Data Wrangler MLOps Workflows](https://github.com/aws-samples/sm-data-wrangler-mlops-workflows)
- [Amazon EKS Arch Apache Solr](https://github.com/aws-samples/amazon-eks-arch-apache-solr)
- [LLM Safety Privacy](https://github.com/annjawn/llm-safety-privacy)

## [Public Speaking](#public-speaking)

- [AWS re:Invent 2022](https://www.aboutamazon.com/news/aws/aws-reinvent-2022) ChalkTalk Speaker - [Using AI to process healthcare data with intelligent document processing](https://d1.awsstatic.com/events/Summits/reinvent2022/AIM334_Using-AI-to-process-healthcare-data-with-intelligent-document-processing.pdf)
- [AWS Global Summit 2022 (San Francisco)](https://aws.amazon.com/events/summits/san-francisco/) ChalkTalk Speaker - [Intelligent Document Processing in lending and insurance industries](https://d1.awsstatic.com/events/Summits/amer2021/maysummitonline/amer-sf-summit-2022/Intelligent_document_processing_in_lending_and_insurance_industries_AIM209.pdf)
- [AWS AI/ML Solution Days](https://amer.resources.awscloud.com/palo-alto-ai-ml-solution-days-unlock-a-world-of-creativity-with-generative-ai) (Palo Alto) Event Speaker - [Enhancing Intelligent Document Processing (IDP) workloads with generative AI](https://amer.resources.awscloud.com/palo-alto-ai-ml-solution-days-unlock-a-world-of-creativity-with-generative-ai/enhancing-idp-workloads-with-generative-ai)
- [AWS AI/ML Mega Modernization Week](https://pages.awscloud.com/NAMER-event-OE-ModWeekaiml-2022-reg-event.html) - Event Speaker - [Prevent online fraud while ensuring a frictionless customer experience](https://amer.resources.awscloud.com/aws-modernization-week-ai-ml/prevent-online-fraud-and-ensure-smooth-customer-experience)(video)
- [DataScience on AWS](https://www.meetup.com/generative-ai-on-aws/events/289912372) - [Intelligent Document Processing with AWS AI Services and Generative AI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lA0ICpoj1jM)(video)
- Guest Speaker at [“ML On AWS“ event hosted by Data Science Club Univ. of Texas](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/av-amish-vyas_datascience-machinelearning-aws-activity-6972003782268248064-SsOr) - Machine Learning Lifecycle


## Learn about AWS AI Services Intelligent Document Processing (IDP)

Anjanava is the original creator of the **Intelligent Document Processing Workshop**, **Amazon Textract SkillBuilder** course, and **Amazon Comprehend SkillBuilder** course, all of which are free courses that includes hands-on exercises to sharpen your skills with AI and build AI powered applications.

### Intelligent Document Processing Workshop

![idp-arch-lab](https://static.us-east-1.prod.workshops.aws/public/36a4e11b-2b2b-450c-91c2-b16c5e0678c0/static/img/moduleimages/idp_arc_2.png)
Learn about Intelligent Document Processing with AWS AI services where I break down all the things you need to know about AWS AI Services such as [Amazon Textract](https://aws.amazon.com/textract/), and [Amazon Comprehend](https://aws.amazon.com/comprehend/). I dive deeper into using generative AI using several Large Language Models to perform tasks such as document summarization, in-context document Q&A, self-querying tables, data format standardization, spell/grammar corrections of hand written or digital documents and more. 

Click 👉🏽 [**here**](https://catalog.workshops.aws/intelligent-document-processing/en-US) to visit the workshop, and take the "[Self-paced](https://catalog.workshops.aws/intelligent-document-processing/en-US/01-introduction/03-self-paced)" lab.

### Learn About Amazon Textract

Amazon Textract is a machine learning (ML) service that automatically extracts text, handwriting, layout elements, and data from scanned documents. Take a free course on AWS Skill Builder on [Getting started with Amazon Textract](https://explore.skillbuilder.aws/learn/course/external/view/elearning/14791/getting-started-with-amazon-textract).

### Learn About Amazon Comprehend

Amazon Comprehend uses natural language processing (NLP) to extract insights about the content of documents. Take a free course on AWS Skill Builder on [Getting started with Amazon Comprehend](https://explore.skillbuilder.aws/learn/course/external/view/elearning/15392/getting-started-with-amazon-comprehend).

### AWS Machine Learning University

Machine Learning University (MLU) provides anybody, anywhere, at any time access to the same machine learning courses used to train Amazon’s own developers on machine learning. Head over to [AWS Machine Learning University](https://aws.amazon.com/machine-learning/mlu/) and start learning today, or register for an online or in-person instructor-led class.

Commit message:

update: Added Comprehend Layout Support

index.md, after:

---
layout: default
---

As a Sr. AI Specialist Solutions Architect at Amazon Web Services (AWS), Anjan leads and supports global initiatives in generative AI, computer vision, natural language processing, and applied AI. With over 16 years of experience in software engineering and cloud technology, they have designed, developed, and implemented enterprise-level, complex, and large-scale systems using AWS products and solutions.

Anjan is a TOGAF® Level 2 Certified Professional and holds 7 AWS Certifications at Professional and Specialty levels. They have a solid background in cloud transformation and domain architecture, and work closely with stakeholders, project managers, developers, and focus groups to align strategy, processes, and IT assets with business goals. They are a technologist, an avid supporter, a researcher, and a contributor to open source projects. They are passionate about building the future of cloud computing with AI.

## Quick Links

- [Thought Leadership](#thought-leadership)
  - [Publications](#publications)
  - [Open-source Contributions](#open-source-contributions)
  - [Public Speaking](#public-speaking)
  - [Learn about AWS AI Services Intelligent Document Processing (IDP)](#learn-about-aws-ai-services-intelligent-document-processing-idp)
    - [Intelligent Document Processing Workshop](#intelligent-document-processing-workshop)
    - [Learn About Amazon Textract](#learn-about-amazon-textract)
    - [Learn About Amazon Comprehend](#learn-about-amazon-comprehend)
    - [AWS Machine Learning University](#aws-machine-learning-university)

# Thought Leadership
## [Publications](#publications)

[**Build trust and safety for generative AI applications with Amazon Comprehend and LangChain**](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/machine-learning/build-trust-and-safety-for-generative-ai-applications-with-amazon-comprehend-and-langchain/)
![llm-safety](https://d2908q01vomqb2.cloudfront.net/f1f836cb4ea6efb2a0b1b99f41ad8b103eff4b59/2023/09/05/ml-15084-image001.png)
We are witnessing a rapid increase in the adoption of large language models (LLM) that power generative AI applications across industries. LLMs are capable of a variety of tasks, such as generating creative content, answering inquiries via chatbots, generating code, and more. Organizations looking to use LLMs to power their applications are increasingly wary about data privacy to ensure trust and safety is maintained within their generative AI applications. This includes handling customers’ personally identifiable information (PII) data properly. It also includes preventing abusive and unsafe content from being propagated to LLMs and checking that data generated by LLMs follows the same principles. In this post, we discuss new features powered by Amazon Comprehend that enable seamless integration to ensure data privacy, content safety, and prompt safety in new and existing generative AI applications.

---

[**Intelligent document processing with Amazon Textract, Amazon Bedrock, and LangChain**](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/machine-learning/intelligent-document-processing-with-amazon-textract-amazon-bedrock-and-langchain)
![idp-genai](https://d2908q01vomqb2.cloudfront.net/f1f836cb4ea6efb2a0b1b99f41ad8b103eff4b59/2023/10/13/idp-llm-workflow.png)
This article discusses how generative AI using Large Language Models with Amazon Bedrock can enhance and augment intelligent document processing. The article discusses how LangChain can be utilized to achieve tasks such as summarization, in-context Q&A, table self-querying, and structured data extractions from the most difficult kinds of documents.

---

[**Integrate Amazon SageMaker Data Wrangler with MLOps workflows**](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/machine-learning/integrate-amazon-sagemaker-data-wrangler-with-mlops-workflows/)
![mlops](https://d2908q01vomqb2.cloudfront.net/f1f836cb4ea6efb2a0b1b99f41ad8b103eff4b59/2022/07/19/ml-lifecycle.png)
This article discusses the integration of Amazon SageMaker Data Wrangler with MLOps workflows to automate the end-to-end ML lifecycle, highlighting the simplification of data preparation processes for data scientists and ML engineers.

---

[**Prevent Fake Account Sign-ups in Real Time with AI using Amazon Fraud Detector**](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/machine-learning/prevent-fake-account-sign-ups-in-real-time-with-ai-using-amazon-fraud-detector/)
![afd](https://d2908q01vomqb2.cloudfront.net/f1f836cb4ea6efb2a0b1b99f41ad8b103eff4b59/2021/10/28/ML-6059-figure-1.png)
The piece elaborates on utilizing Amazon Fraud Detector in real-time alongside Amazon Cognito custom authentication workflows to thwart fake account sign-ups, emphasizing early detection and prevention of fraudulent account creations as a robust defense against fraud and platform abuse.

---

[**Part 1: Intelligent Document Processing with AWS AI Services**](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/machine-learning/part-1-intelligent-document-processing-with-aws-ai-services/)
![idp-e2e](https://d2908q01vomqb2.cloudfront.net/f1f836cb4ea6efb2a0b1b99f41ad8b103eff4b59/2022/07/29/idp-phases.png)
The article introduces IDP with AWS AI services for automating information extraction from various document types, aiming to replace manual, error-prone document processing with a faster, more accurate automated system, thus reducing overall costs and facilitating better business decisions.

---

[**Part 2: Intelligent Document Processing with AWS AI Services**](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/machine-learning/part-2-intelligent-document-processing-with-aws-ai-services/)

This article delves into the latter phases of the IDP workflow with AWS AI services, emphasizing transitioning from manual processing or legacy OCR solutions to an IDP pipeline for more accurate, faster, and cost-effective information extraction.

---

[**Process Mortgage Documents with Intelligent Document Processing using Amazon Textract and Amazon Comprehend**](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/machine-learning/process-mortgage-documents-with-intelligent-document-processing-using-amazon-textract-and-amazon-comprehend/)
![idp-mortgage](https://d2908q01vomqb2.cloudfront.net/f1f836cb4ea6efb2a0b1b99f41ad8b103eff4b59/2022/08/10/Arch-Diag-Mortgage.jpg)
The article presents how IDP with AWS AI services automates and accelerates mortgage document processing, improving decision quality and reducing costs by efficiently handling the document-heavy workflow of the mortgage application process.

---

[**Amazon Comprehend document classifier adds layout support for higher accuracy**](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/machine-learning/amazon-comprehend-document-classifier-adds-layout-support-for-higher-accuracy/)
![layout-support](https://d2908q01vomqb2.cloudfront.net/f1f836cb4ea6efb2a0b1b99f41ad8b103eff4b59/2023/04/18/ML-14200-Picture1.png)
The ability to effectively handle and process enormous amounts of documents has become essential for enterprises in the modern world. Due to the continuous influx of information that all enterprises deal with, manually classifying documents is no longer a viable option. Document classification models can automate the procedure and help organizations save time and resources. Traditional categorization techniques, such as manual processing and keyword-based searches, become less efficient and more time-consuming as the volume of documents increases. This inefficiency causes lower productivity and higher operating expenses. Additionally, it can prevent crucial information from being accessible when needed, which could lead to a poor customer experience and impact decision-making. At AWS re:Invent 2022, Amazon Comprehend, a natural language processing (NLP) service that uses machine learning (ML) to discover insights from text, launched support for native document types. This new feature gave you the ability to classify documents in native formats (PDF, TIFF, JPG, PNG, DOCX) using Amazon Comprehend.

---

[**Introducing One-Step Classification and Entity Recognition with Amazon Comprehend for Intelligent Document Processing**](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/machine-learning/introducing-one-step-classification-and-entity-recognition-with-amazon-comprehend-for-intelligent-document-processing/)
![one-step](https://d2908q01vomqb2.cloudfront.net/b6692ea5df920cad691c20319a6fffd7a4a766b8/2022/11/28/image001-12.png)
This article introduces a one-step document classification and real-time analysis feature in Amazon Comprehend for IDP, simplifying the direct analysis of semi-structured documents in native formats without the need for pre-processing to extract text.

---

[**Balancing Innovation with Safety & Privacy in the Era of Large Language Models (LLM)**](https://towardsdatascience.com/balancing-innovation-with-safety-privacy-in-the-era-of-large-language-models-llm-a63570e4a24a)
![tr-safety-llm](https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:2000/format:webp/1*JtxXR6v4VOp0Vx_8s2hYdA.png)
A Guide to Implement Safety, and Privacy Mechanisms for your Generative AI applications.
_Publisher: [towardsdatascience.com](https://www.towardsdatascience.com)_

---

[**Intelligent Document Processing with AWS AI Services and Amazon Bedrock**](https://opendatascience.com/intelligent-document-processing-with-aws-ai-services-and-amazon-bedrock/)
![bedrock-odsc](https://opendatascience.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/AB4.png)
Implement Intelligent Document Processing (IDP) with AWS AI and generative AI with Amazon Bedrock.
_Publisher: [Open Data Science](https://opendatascience.com/)_

---

[**Deploying and Scaling Apache Solr on Kubernetes**](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/opensource/deploying-and-scaling-apache-solr-on-kubernetes/)
![solr](https://awsopensourceblog.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/assets/anjanavb_apache-solr-kubernetes/anjanavb_apache-solr-kubernetes_f1.png)
The article outlines deploying and scaling Apache Solr on Kubernetes using Amazon EKS for an enterprise-grade search platform, mitigating challenges associated with distributed deployment of Solr, making it highly available, scalable, and fault-tolerant with lower maintenance.

---

[**Introducing Self-Service Quota Management and Higher Default Service Quotas for Amazon Textract**](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/machine-learning/introducing-self-service-quota-management-and-higher-default-service-quotas-for-amazon-textract/)

The article announces self-service quota management for Amazon Textract via the AWS Service Quotas console, alongside higher default service quotas in select AWS Regions, facilitating better scaling of Amazon Textract usage and quicker processing of quota increase requests.

---

[**Announcing Enhanced Table Extractions with Amazon Textract**](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/machine-learning/announcing-enhanced-table-extractions-with-amazon-textract/)

The article announces improvements in Amazon Textract's Tables feature for easier extraction of information from tabular structures in documents, auto-detecting titles, footers, section titles, and summary rows to simplify tabular data extraction.

---

[**Introducing Amazon Textract Bulk Document Uploader for Enhanced Evaluation and Analysis**](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/machine-learning/introducing-amazon-textract-bulk-document-uploader-for-enhanced-evaluation-and-analysis/)

The article introduces the Bulk Document Uploader feature in Amazon Textract, allowing for effortless processing and evaluation of up to 150 documents at once without coding, helping users quickly gauge Amazon Textract's performance on their documents.

---

[**NodeJS Runtime Environment with AWS Lambda Layers**](https://medium.com/@anjanava.biswas/nodejs-runtime-environment-with-aws-lambda-layers-f3914613e20e)

Build NodeJS applications with AWS Lambda Serverless functions using Lambda Layers to manage dependencies.

---

[**AWS Cognito User Pool Federation with OneLogin IDP**](https://medium.com/@anjanava.biswas/aws-cognito-user-pool-federation-with-onelogin-idp-4b1962127b0b)

A step-by-step guide on how to integrate OneLogin Identity Provider with Amazon Cognito

---

[**Uploading Files to AWS S3 from React App using AWS Amplify**](https://medium.com/@anjanava.biswas/uploading-files-to-aws-s3-from-react-app-using-aws-amplify-b286dbad2dd7)

Upload large number of files directly to Amazon S3 using AWS Amplify, with just a few lines of code.

---
**Classify documents with Amazon Comprehend [[video](https://youtu.be/QsqHvDPRSSQ)]**

<div align="center">
      <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QsqHvDPRSSQ">
         <img src="https://img.youtube.com/vi/QsqHvDPRSSQ/0.jpg" style="width:100%;">
      </a>
</div>

## [Open-source Contributions](#open-source-contributions)

If you've got a bright idea about improving any of these open-source repositories, we welcome forks and pull requests. 👍

- [Amazon Textract Layout Linearizer](https://github.com/aws-samples/amazon-textract-textractor/tree/master/prettyprinter#get-linearized-text-from-layout-using-get_text_from_layout_json-method)
- [AWS AI IDP Human-in-Loop](https://github.com/aws-samples/aws-ai-idp-human-in-loop)
- [AWS AI PHI Deidentification](https://github.com/aws-samples/aws-ai-phi-deidentification)
- [Amazon Textract IDP CDK Constructs](https://github.com/aws-samples/amazon-textract-idp-cdk-constructs)
- [Langchain Experimental Comprehend Moderation](https://api.python.langchain.com/en/latest/experimental_api_reference.html#module-langchain_experimental.comprehend_moderation)
- [Amazon Fraud Detector End-to-End](https://github.com/aws-samples/amazon-fraud-detector-end-to-end)
- [Amazon Fraud Detector with Cognito](https://github.com/aws-samples/amazon-fraud-detector-with-cognito)
- [SM Data Wrangler MLOps Workflows](https://github.com/aws-samples/sm-data-wrangler-mlops-workflows)
- [Amazon EKS Arch Apache Solr](https://github.com/aws-samples/amazon-eks-arch-apache-solr)
- [LLM Safety Privacy](https://github.com/annjawn/llm-safety-privacy)

## [Public Speaking](#public-speaking)

- [AWS re:Invent 2022](https://www.aboutamazon.com/news/aws/aws-reinvent-2022) ChalkTalk Speaker - [Using AI to process healthcare data with intelligent document processing](https://d1.awsstatic.com/events/Summits/reinvent2022/AIM334_Using-AI-to-process-healthcare-data-with-intelligent-document-processing.pdf)
- [AWS Global Summit 2022 (San Francisco)](https://aws.amazon.com/events/summits/san-francisco/) ChalkTalk Speaker - [Intelligent Document Processing in lending and insurance industries](https://d1.awsstatic.com/events/Summits/amer2021/maysummitonline/amer-sf-summit-2022/Intelligent_document_processing_in_lending_and_insurance_industries_AIM209.pdf)
- [AWS AI/ML Solution Days](https://amer.resources.awscloud.com/palo-alto-ai-ml-solution-days-unlock-a-world-of-creativity-with-generative-ai) (Palo Alto) Event Speaker - [Enhancing Intelligent Document Processing (IDP) workloads with generative AI](https://amer.resources.awscloud.com/palo-alto-ai-ml-solution-days-unlock-a-world-of-creativity-with-generative-ai/enhancing-idp-workloads-with-generative-ai)
- [AWS AI/ML Mega Modernization Week](https://pages.awscloud.com/NAMER-event-OE-ModWeekaiml-2022-reg-event.html) - Event Speaker - [Prevent online fraud while ensuring a frictionless customer experience](https://amer.resources.awscloud.com/aws-modernization-week-ai-ml/prevent-online-fraud-and-ensure-smooth-customer-experience)(video)
- [DataScience on AWS](https://www.meetup.com/generative-ai-on-aws/events/289912372) - [Intelligent Document Processing with AWS AI Services and Generative AI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lA0ICpoj1jM)(video)
- Guest Speaker at [“ML On AWS“ event hosted by Data Science Club Univ. of Texas](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/av-amish-vyas_datascience-machinelearning-aws-activity-6972003782268248064-SsOr) - Machine Learning Lifecycle


## Learn about AWS AI Services Intelligent Document Processing (IDP)

Anjanava is the original creator of the **Intelligent Document Processing Workshop**, **Amazon Textract SkillBuilder** course, and **Amazon Comprehend SkillBuilder** course, all of which are free courses that includes hands-on exercises to sharpen your skills with AI and build AI powered applications.

### Intelligent Document Processing Workshop

![idp-arch-lab](https://static.us-east-1.prod.workshops.aws/public/36a4e11b-2b2b-450c-91c2-b16c5e0678c0/static/img/moduleimages/idp_arc_2.png)
Learn about Intelligent Document Processing with AWS AI services where I break down all the things you need to know about AWS AI Services such as [Amazon Textract](https://aws.amazon.com/textract/), and [Amazon Comprehend](https://aws.amazon.com/comprehend/). I dive deeper into using generative AI using several Large Language Models to perform tasks such as document summarization, in-context document Q&A, self-querying tables, data format standardization, spell/grammar corrections of hand written or digital documents and more. 

Click 👉🏽 [**here**](https://catalog.workshops.aws/intelligent-document-processing/en-US) to visit the workshop, and take the "[Self-paced](https://catalog.workshops.aws/intelligent-document-processing/en-US/01-introduction/03-self-paced)" lab.

### Learn About Amazon Textract

Amazon Textract is a machine learning (ML) service that automatically extracts text, handwriting, layout elements, and data from scanned documents. Take a free course on AWS Skill Builder on [Getting started with Amazon Textract](https://explore.skillbuilder.aws/learn/course/external/view/elearning/14791/getting-started-with-amazon-textract).

### Learn About Amazon Comprehend

Amazon Comprehend uses natural language processing (NLP) to extract insights about the content of documents. Take a free course on AWS Skill Builder on [Getting started with Amazon Comprehend](https://explore.skillbuilder.aws/learn/course/external/view/elearning/15392/getting-started-with-amazon-comprehend).

### AWS Machine Learning University

Machine Learning University (MLU) provides anybody, anywhere, at any time access to the same machine learning courses used to train Amazon’s own developers on machine learning. Head over to [AWS Machine Learning University](https://aws.amazon.com/machine-learning/mlu/) and start learning today, or register for an online or in-person instructor-led class.
